HTML5 Boilerplate

HTML5 Boilerplate is basically just a front-end starting template. 
It is the product of many years of iterative development and combined community knowledge. 

Boilerplate is a front-end kickstart template that contains series of best practices and common inclusions. 
It offers a generic files/folders structure, and HTML5-ready template. 
It's like a blueprint for your house, but without the building blocks. 
The man behind this project is Paul Irish, an American front-end engineer and a developer advocate for Google Chrome.

Isn't Boilerplate just another CSS framework like Bootstrap?

Not really. 
You can't build websites with Boilerplate - it's only a starting point. 
Bootstrap and other frameworks like Foundation or Materializecss provide ready-to-use components 
and utilities you can use to build an entire website from scratch. 
But you can combine Boilerplate with Bootstrap to get the best benefits of both (Follow the "customizable option" below). 

Why use it?

HTML5 Boilerplate helps designers to get started with the new standard by offering a professional front-end template that allows you to create a fast, 
and adaptable site with a set of HTML5-ready features and elements.

Where to download it?

You can download the HTML5 boilerplate here:  
https://www.html5boilerplate.com

There is a full form version, and a stripped down version. 
The stripped down version is recommended for those who have worked with boilerplate before. 
There's also a customizable option (link here
http://www.initializr.com/
) that allows you to choose only the elements you need.

Who uses it?

Below are the sites using boilerplate:

Nike Skateboarding
Unilever
Nasa Data Catalog
Features:

IE Conditional comments
Has an "Old Browser" warning (optional)
HTML5 ready.
Google Analytics (optional)
Cross-browser compatible
Mobile browser optimizations
Included normalize.css for CSS normalizations and common bug fixes.
The latest jQuery via CDN, with a local fallback (optional).
Modernizr - A JavaScript library that detects HTML5 and CSS3 features in the user's browser.
CSS Media queries
Useful CSS Helpers
Delete-key friendly. Easy to strip out parts you don't need.
Common helpers:

.hidden - Add to any elements you want to hide
.visuallyhidden - Hides text from browsers but makes available to screen readers
.invisible - Hide without affecting layout
.clearfix - Ensures that any floated children are contained within an element.